So I want to start by adding some maps to our project.
As I mentioned in the last lecture, Maps, Google Maps, Apple maps aren't built into react native but there's
a great third party library by AirBnB which you might know that they probably need some maps and
their app which by the way is built with react native,
so there is this library from AirBnB which is called react native maps.
Now if you open this on github,
you can simply search for it and then open the github repository,
then you will find detailed instructions on how to use it,
you'll find installation instructions, set up instructions and an example project, the full API, you can do a
lot with this package and I can only encourage you to dive into that to really get the features you
need.
I will show you how to include it and how to use some of the features but obviously, I won't go through
the entire set of features
you have here but be aware
you can also see some nice gifs here that you can do a lot with this package.
The most important for us of course right now is how we can install it.
So for that, let's click on the installation instructions to see how that works
and you see first of all, we obviously install it through npm,
then here this is some automatic linking process which I described earlier in an article in this course,
I will do the manual connection though, so I will show you how this works.
And then finally at the end, once we got everything installed, we can thereafter dive into the various
features we want to use.
So first of all let's install it though,
for that I'll go back to our project and run npm install --save react-native-maps,
that's the name of the library. That will download it and add it to node modules as always and thereafter,
we obviously need to connect it to both Android and iOS
and you can find the manual installation steps here under iOS, there if you scroll down to option 3,
manually,
that's what I'm going to do here.
Let's first of all add it to iOS,
so I'm in Xcode and there you know the procedure in general,
you click on libraries, right click, add files to our in-course or to your project name, go to node modules,
search for the react native maps package there and in there, you should find the Xcode project, to
be precise in this package you will find it in the lib folder in react native maps,
there's the iOS folder, here's the Xcode project which you should add.
So next step click on your project name, click on build faces,
click on link binary with libraries on the plus at the end of the list and there, search for maps and
you should find lib air maps, click add now.
Now if you have a look at the official description, that were the steps 1 and 2,
now in the third step, we should then click on this included air maps Xcode project file and go to build
settings and double click the text to the right of header search paths there and verify that it is this as well
as this path.
So let's see if that's the case,
let's go back and let's click on air maps Xcode project here on the left, build faces, build settings,
excuse me, there you may filter for header search paths and now if you double click on that,
you'll see two paths here, react native react and react native libraries image,
these are the paths which are mentioned here,
so that should be all right.
So we don't need to do anything here in step three
and with that, we're done.
So that was it for iOS,
let's now do the same for Android.
For this the first step is in the Android app, I build gradle file, that we do add this line here to
dependencies,
so let's go to the Android folder, there under app in the build gradle file,
make sure to pick the one in the app folder not the one in the Android folder, there under dependencies
just add compile project react native maps,
that's the first step.
The second step is here, the play services which you need,
now this is actually something we will have to add here to have it work correctly, to add Google Play
services,
so let's instead grab this code here
and replace the line we just added with that.
So now the compilation is a bit more complex because it basically will pull in the Google Play services
which are needed to use Google Maps in Android, especially use this if you didn't use it before, so
if you went with this approach and then got some errors regarding Google Play services, well you probably
want to use that
then. Next step is in android settings gradle, we should include these two lines,
so let's copy them here
and let's go to Android
settings gradle and there, simply at the end of the file,
let's add these two lines and you see the pattern with all the other libraries,
we use the same approach there.
And now to use Google Maps on Android which it of course will use, you need a Google Maps API key.
Now you can click this link if you already have a Google Maps project for which you want to add the
credentials for this key,
you can also search for Google Maps API key and you should find this page on the Google documentation
and there you can click the get a key button here where you now need to select or create a project.
I will pick create a new project and name it rn-course, you can of course pick any name you want or
let's name it awesome-places, I'll name it like this.
Create an enable API and now this may take a second
but once it's done, you will actually have an API key you can use just like that in your project.
So now you can just copy that key here,
clicking this button here for example and that is it,
now leave that open in case I kind of need to use it later again
but with that, we can proceed with the next step where we need this code here and need to add it to our
Android apps source main Android manifest xml file. This file is kind of setting up the configuration
for our project,
so in there, you see we add this in the application part and actually we don't copy the full application tag
here,
we only need to add this meta tag here,
this metadata tag.
So in the existing application tag, don't overwrite this, instead next to the activity, either at the start
or maybe at the end,
so not inside an activity but next to it,
add your metadata here. There,
the name stays as it is,
so we're basically setting up some information for the API key for Geo
but then here, you paste in the API key you just got.
So here I just did this, this is my API key which I now added.
Now one last step we need to do on Android is we need to go to the Java folder in app source main Java
main application and there,
first of all we need to add an import, it's import com.airbnb.android.react.maps.mapsPackage,
like this and then if you go down to this list function, the get packages function
I mean, there you need to add a comma after new vectors package and then you add new maps package.
And with that, save it, save all the other files too,
you're done with the set up for Android. And with that added, make sure that you have Google Play services
installed,
now on your physical device you see how that is done
and if you're using a simulator created through the AVD in Android studio,
you should have these services installed on the device.
With that we got it installed, we got react native maps installed,
this was almost the hardest part,
let's now dive into the other docs here by
clicking on docs and see how else we can use this or I guess we don't even need the v-docs,
that's why you were viewing this course.
So let's dive into how we use react native maps in our react native project.